George was so stunned with admiration at the splendor of the equipage
that he scarcely glanced at the interior of the coach until the
sunlight flashed upon something that fairly dazzled him. It was a
diamond-hilted dress-sword, worn by a gentleman of about fifty, who sat
alone upon the back seat. The gorgeous sword-hilt was the only thing
about him that shone or glinted, for his brown travelling-suit was as
studiously simple as his equipage was splendid. He wore plain silver
buckles at his knees and upon his handsome, high-arched feet, and his
hair, streaked with gray, was without powder, and tied into a club with
a black ribbon.

One glance at his face fixed George’s attention. It was pale and
somewhat angular, unlike the type of florid, high-colored Virginia
squires with which George was familiar. He had been handsome in his
youth, and was still handsome, with a stately, grave beauty; but even a
boy could see that this man had had but little joy in life.

From the moment that George’s eyes fell upon this gentleman he looked
upon nothing else. Neither the great coach nor the superb horses had
any power to attract his gaze, although never, in all his short life,
had he seen anything so splendid. His mother had a coach, and so had
most of the people round about, but all had a common air of having once
been handsome, and of having reached the comfortable, shabby-genteel
stage. And many persons drove four horses to these great lumbering
vehicles, but all four would not be worth one of the gallant roans that
trotted along the road so gayly.